---
title: xmonad-contrib 0.18.1 is available
image: images/logo-wordmark.png
---

# xmonad-contrib 0.18.1 is available

A new version of xmonad-contrib has been released.
Check out our
[download page]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link download.md %})
for instructions on where to get it.
For help getting started—or more info—see [our website][xmonad.org] and [talk to us][community]!
If you like what we do, you can support us on [Open Collective] or via [GitHub Sponsors].
Thanks!

[GitHub Sponsors]: https://github.com/sponsors/xmonad
[Open Collective]: https://opencollective.com/xmonad
[community]: https://xmonad.org/community.html
[xmonad.org]: https://xmonad.org/

### Table of Contents
{:.no_toc}

  + TOC
  {:toc}

## xmonad-contrib 0.18.1

This release includes 62 non-merge commits by 16 contributors!
For a full summary of all the changes, see [xmonad-contrib's CHANGES.md] file.

[xmonad-contrib's CHANGES.md]: https://github.com/xmonad/xmonad-contrib/blob/v0.18.1/CHANGES.md

### Breaking Changes

  * `XMonad.Hooks.StatusBars`

    - Move status bar functions from the `IO` to the `X` monad to allow them to look up information from `X`, like the screen width.
      Existing configurations may need to use `io` from `XMonad.Core` or `liftIO` from `Control.Monad.IO.Class` in order to lift any existing `IO StatusBarConfig` values into `X StatusBarConfig` values.

  * `XMonad.Prompt`

    - Added an additional `XPConfig` argument to `historyCompletion` and `historyCompletionP`.
      Calls like `historyCompletionP myFunc` should be changed to `historyCompletionP myConf myFunc`.
      If no `myConf` is lying around, `def` can be used instead.

  * `XMonad.Actions.GridSelect`

    - Added the `gs_cancelOnEmptyClick` field to `GSConfig`, which makes mouse clicks into "empty space" cancel the current grid-select.
      Users explicitly defining their own `GSConfig` record will have to add this to their definitions.
      Additionally, the field defaults to `True`—to retain the old behaviour, set it to `False`.

### Selected Features and improvements

  * `XMonad.Actions.Profiles`

    - A new module to group workspaces by similarity.
      Useful when one has lots of workspaces and uses only a couple per unit of work.

  * `XMonad.Hooks.FloatConfigureReq`

    - A new module to customize the handling of floating windows' move/resize/restack requests (`ConfigureRequest`).
      Useful as a workaround for some misbehaving client applications
      (`steam`, `rxvt-unicode`, anything that tries to restore absolute position of floats).

  * `XMonad.Layout.Columns`

    - A new layout that organizes windows in columns;
      allows to move/resize windows in every directions.

  * `XMonad.Prompt.WindowBringer`

    - Added `copyMenu`, a convenient way to copy a window to the current workspace.

  * `XMonad.Prompt.OrgMode`

    - Added `HH:MM-HH:MM` and `HH:MM+HH` syntax to specify time spans.

  * `XMonad.Hooks.EwmhDesktops`

    - Requests for unmanaged windows no longer cause a refresh.
      This avoids flicker and also fixes disappearing menus in the Steam client and possibly a few other client applications.

      (See also `XMonad.Hooks.FloatConfigureReq` and/or `XMonad.Util.Hacks` for additional Steam client workarounds.)

  * `XMonad.Actions.Submap`

    - Added `visualSubmapSorted` to enable sorting of the keymap descriptions.

  * `XMonad.Hooks.ScreenCorners`

    - Added screen edge support with `SCTop`, `SCBottom`, `SCLeft` and `SCRight`.
      Now both corners and edges are supported.
